Well, the Command General of Staff College behind
your record says, in your record, said, man, we
wish we had more like this General Franklin. And he
was good. He was good to me. He was the best active
Army General other than General Powell that I
could say helped the Reserves. And I went over and
took over command. And I made some changes there.
Now tell me, yeah, tell me about... First tell me
about this petroleum intersection. What does
that mean? All these designations, what do they
mean? And this is in 1971? That's right. 1970.
1970. 1970. And you were deactivated in 71, then?
Or when? That's right. That's right. That's
right. I had a unit about a year. You had the unit for
about a year. Yeah, a little more than a year, I
guess. Late 69, 1970, I took over the unit. And I
went up there, and the acting commander was an
administrative assistant named Plunkett,
Colonel Plunkett. He was the acting commander,
full colonel. And he was a civil servant. We called
him administrative assistants. He was on civil
service. He was paid full-time job for him. That
was his job, livelihood. And that kind of brussel
me a little bit because I couldn't see a civil
servant man being a commander of a unit like that.
No, I mean, it didn't make sense, that's right. So I
went in there, and he was a colonel, and I'm a
colonel. So after I was there for a weekend, a whole
week, I was there three days, one Friday,
Saturday, and Sunday. And I had the option. to
either make him my exec officer or declare him
excess and put him, remove him from the slot and
make him a excess officer. But he worked full time
for the reserve unit. Now you understand in the
reserve unit they have these full time employees.
Well that's what he was. I asked him to type a letter
for me while I was there. He couldn't type it,
didn't know how to type. And I said to myself, how in
the world this guy became a full colonel
administrative assistant who doesn't know how to
type. Then I found out that he really, in my
estimation, wasn't capable of being a colonel. He
just wasn't. So I removed him from my... How did he
become? I don't know. Well, he and the general
before him, I found out later, were really
buddies. So it was a buddy system that got him as far
as he got. And that unit has never passed an IG
inspection. Always busted it. And so I was told
this by the Army commander, a deputy Army
commander, and he said, get out there and
straighten it out. And so
I did. I removed him as, yeah, I'm always removing
guys. I removed him as Executive Austin. I moved up
a Lieutenant Colonel John, moved him into the
slot. And I shifted some of the others around. And
next thing I knew, we had an IG inspection and
passed it with flying colors. Another thing, this
unit had the highest divorce rate of any Army
Reserve unit I know of. Really? And you asked, your
question is, what's divorce? Why are you getting
the divorces? Because I was told when I got there by
the staff, they said, Colonel, all our people are
getting divorces. and leaving the unit. I said,
well now, what's the problem? He said, we don't
know. I said, let me look at your schedule. OK.
Terry, they were meeting on a weekend and two
Tuesday nights, a month, and two Tuesday nights
without pay. And the whole unit was out there, not
the staff. They
weren't at home very much. So they weren't home at
all. So I said, OK. At the end of my first meeting, I
assembled the whole unit, about 160 people, in
this headquarters. Not counting the outlying
units that I had. I assembled them, and I says, as a
new commander, we're not going to have any more
weekday meetings. And we're going to have one
weekend a month, and you're going to get paid for
all these meetings. Anytime we have a meeting,
you're going to get paid for it. So you can make your
plans now to meet once a month, and it'll be the
third weekend of the month. And when I got through
talking, I got the biggest rousing yell I ever
heard in my life. Hey, Friday's your commander. I
mean, recruits, enlisted men doing it. You know,
some of the coming of them. So I kind of laughed and
walked away. Well, after that, there were no more
divorces. Seriously. No more, well, except the
normal divorces. but it was because Plunkett had
been calling his people out just you know on his own
will and then hell the wives and husbands were
fighting and so after that it was alright unless it
really raised morale oh it really it did it I did a
lot of other things too I went around to the
sections and visited with them and promoted some
people who should have been promoted a long time
ago and I and
I Moved people into different rooms, officers,
and gave them better accommodations. And then I
went to the Sandia base commander and told him that
our accommodations, our facilities were
terrible and needed better facilities. And so we
got them.
We went to Alaska for training. No kidding. Went up
there for two weeks. And that's where I met General
Hollingsworth.
I can't remember right now, Terry, but I had
problems with Colonel Pluckett.
See, he was always fighting against me because he
was dissatisfied because he didn't get the
command.
And so he would try to work against me. And we got to
Alaska. About the third day, I removed him. from
his job, and I went to see Hollingsworth. And I
said, I need a plane ticket for one of my officers.
I'm sending him
home. And he was a two-star general. And I told him I
need to send him home. And he laughed. He says, my
goddammit. You got the money. You got the ticket.
You can send him home. But why don't you just sit him
on his butt and just let him sit? Why waste your
money in sending him home now? I said, OK. I'll do
that. So he says, send him over here, and we'll get
him out of your way. So I did. I sent him over there.
And
Hollingsworth gave me the finest fishing report I
ever got in my life. Really? He really, he saw me
working. And he just was marveled. And he was proud
that a Texas, an Aggie, would step in and just be as
firm and strong and do a job as good as I could do. And
hell, that shaped this unit up more. The dress was
immaculate. And the military courtesies were
just superb. And I just, you know, I really, and he
was so proud. And he would, he called his staff
here, his own people, and presented me to the
staff. He says, I want you to meet the finest damn
commander that I've ever, yeah, that I've ever
met. And he said, look, he's got the Silver Star and
the Purple Heart, and he was a forward observer in
the Bulge, and he's back home alive. He says, we're
so proud of him, and, and, uh. When we left, we had a
banquet and invited he and all his staff. That guy
was just, he just praised. We ran the pipeline. I
forgot to tell you. What we'd do, we'd unload the
oil. Yeah, what is it, a petrol intersection on
Manhattan? That's right. Let's get to that. The
Army has a pipeline in Alaska, 600 miles. No
kidding. Not one drop of oil has ever been spilled.
You know how they talk about the environment, you
know, they're all... Well, that's tremendous.
They would come into a little town. A ship would
come into
Alaska, unload it, put it in the tanks. Then we'd go
to the tank, and we'd put it in the pipeline and take
it up to Fairbanks, Alaska, and to the
distribution point. And we ran the oil up there.
And we monitored the pipeline and kept the oil
going. Hollingsworth, General Hollingsworth,
would give all the people who ran the pipeline, and
they were civil servants, give them all vacations
while we come up here and run the pipeline for them.
Oh, yeah. We would perform a good service for them.
And so all along the pipeline, they had little
stations, and people, three or four, a family
would live at a station. Maybe two families or
three families lived at these pumping stations. I
would take my chaplain, and they never thought
about it before. I said, now, chaplain? He asked me
when he got there, he said, what am I going to do,
Colonel? I said, chaplain, I want you to get your
jeep, and I want you to go up to Fairbanks, 600 miles
away. And the two weeks you're here, I want you to go
down the pipeline and conduct services for all
those people. And a lot of them hadn't seen a priest
or preacher in months, and he did. And he conducted
services for all the people along the pipeline.
That's a great idea. Oh, it's real hollingsworth
to Dad. He couldn't believe it. And the people
along the pipeline just loved it. Yes, you know.
And they would spend a day or two with him. You know,
they wouldn't just come in for an hour or two and go.
They would stay a day and conduct
regular Bible lessons with him, conduct
services, whatever denomination they were. Some
of them. I think he told me he ran across a couple of
Greek Orthodox. I said, what, did you do your cross
the right way? You know, the Grand Catholic and
Greek Orthodox are different crosses. But
anyway, and Hollingsworth just loved it. Anyway,
we left, and he praised us and told us, you know,
we've got lots of good places. Why were you only
there in this unit for a year? They deactivated the
unit. Department of the Army said they didn't need
it in their inventory anymore. So they
deactivated it, and instead of a general slot,
general position, they made it a full colonel
slot. So were you sort of out of a job then? I was kind
of dangling, because my name had been presented to
the Senate for promotion to general. In other
words, you were still a colonel. I was still a
colonel. You were in sort of, I see. Yeah, I was
still a colonel, but my name Had to go to the Senate
and then to the president to be okay. And of course,
before you become a general, it goes through all
kinds of boards. Fifth Army Board and then TRADOC
training division, training command. Not
TRADOC, CONARC, Continental Army Commander. Go
through there and then And you're in competition
with others for the same job. So they have to send in
three colonels for a Brigadier General slot. And
so finally I got selected. The Department of the
Army selected me to be, they called me Brigadier
General Designee. And that was a big step. Once I
got that step, then I had the title, Brigadier
General Designee, which I could occupy any
general slot.
Then the Department of the Army came out and said,
we're going to deactivate the unit. We don't need
it anymore. What did you think of that time? I was
sick. I bet you that meant you probably thought
that you would stay current. Yeah, I was, you know,
what am I going to do? Well, I got a call from General
Franklin. He says, come see me. So I went to see him.
He says, now, Mike,
we're very, let me show you what he said. very much
extremely, he kind of got me, very much extremely
pleased with your performance. You are a general
officer material, and we're going to give you a
general officer slot. I said, don't you worry.
You've got a general officer slot. I said, fine. He
says, now there's three openings.
the Engineer Brigade in Bryan, Texas, a Brigadier
General slot at the 75th Maneuver Area Command. So
we're getting back to General Davis now. And we're
going to activate a deputy commander slot with the
90th ARCOM, 90th Army Reserve Command. It's a
reserve command headquarters. that controlled
lots of reserve units, 35, 40 units, small units.
Now he says there's three of them. Located in this
area? San Antonio, Texas. Located in Fort Sam
Houston. Now the engineer brigades at Bryan and
the other ones at Yale. So he says,
which one would you like to have? Really? That's
fantastic. This guy, this General Franklin, he
says, And he really makes you feel good. You don't
know how. Which one would you like to have? What
would you want? Which job would you like to have?
That's fantastic advice. It really gets you. Why
did you decide on the 90th? The Army of Command. And
why did you decide as the deputy instead of the
commanding officer in two other positions?
Right.
That went through my mind. And
the 90th command slot kind of appealed to me
because General Travis was the commander. So I
knew in a couple years he would retire and then I
could step up. That's the normal procedure. And if
I went to the 75th Command, I would be with General
Davis. And you know, he didn't, wasn't too crazy
about it because he had his own men over there. And
Hayden, and Concordall, and they were all
buddy-bud. And then, Bryan, Texas, Engineer
Brigade.
You didn't have much experience. I didn't have any
experience in engineering. I wasn't an engineer.
And I said, well, I'll just take the... So I told
Jennifer, I said, I'll take the San Antonio job. He
says, oh, I forgot to tell you. He says, General
Travis is going to retire, and we're going to take
Brigadier General Warren Myers, who I knew very
well, and bring him out of control group and make
him the commander. I said, okay, fine, I know
Warren well. We served together 9th Division,
Oklahoma. And I said, oh sure. So I took over the
90th, so I was assigned the 90th Deputy Commander
slot. And Myers was a commander, and we both went in
as Brigadier Generals, and both went in at the same
time. And at the first, we were good friends. And we
stayed friends. Except he hadn't been with troops
for five, six years. And he didn't know how to
really command the 90th. And he relied on my
judgment and my advice to command it, which is
fine. He had his office, and I had my little office.
And we worked very well. A lot of things he did, I
didn't particularly thought it was a proper thing
to do. But anyway, he was the commander. And so I
went along with him. And he would ask me different
advice, and I'd give it to him, and he would accept
it. But then it got to a point, Terry, where he
played a lot of politics. Really upset me. In what
sense? Well, he began to move staff around and
wasn't capable. He wasn't a strong commander at
all. We had some people in the civil servant
positions that we should have got rid of a long time
ago, and he wouldn't do it. And since he lived in San
Antonio and they lived in San Antonio, they became
buddy-buddy. He buddy-bud too much with his
staff, the lower echelon staff. And even some of
the listed men. But anyway, that didn't deter my
determination to do a good job. I went to San
Antonio every Monday for four years. Never missed
a Monday. I would go Monday at noon and drill Monday
night and come back Tuesday noon. Drive all the
way. And I told General Myers, I said, General
Myers, everybody that I know of, is going to
weekend drills. I said, no, I think we ought to go
to, I think we can get more out of it. I says, I don't
mind driving back and forth, but I think the
weekend drill, multiple drill, we called them in,
would mute us, would be the thing for us to do. And
no, sir, he wouldn't do it. Well, about that time,
after about a year, When I took over, we had a big
drug problem throughout the Regner Army. And so
the reserve began to get active in the drug
problem. So he asked me to be the drug officer and
set up a plan for the 90th Army Reserve Command. And
we had about 26 units then. They eliminated some
units, and we wound up about 26 units. And we had
approximately how many men? 5,000 men. 5,000 men.
5,000 reservists. Reservists. All scattered all
over Texas and New Mexico and up in Sweetport,
Louisiana. Anyway, I became the drug and alcohol
abuse officer for the 90th Archive. So they sent me
to school at the University of Oklahoma. It was a
10-day school. And I was the ranking officer in the
class. By that time, I got promoted to Brigadier
General. So he got promoted to two stars, and I was
one star. And then this schooling was not only
Reservists or National, but Active Army people,
about 60 of us. When I came back, I organized a plan
for the 9th ARCOM that was the model plan for all the
reserve units in the United States. No kidding?
Tell me about that plan. Well, I emphasized
physical fitness programs for the people and the
reserves. They had people coming from all over the
reserve from the commands from all over the United
States to come look at our plan and see what we had.
And the Army commander commended me for it. Myers
has yet to commend me for it. Then I began to sense a
little jealousy there, right after that. And what
else besides physical fitness? Well, we had,
instead of the medical doctors coming in and
talking, I asked for psychiatrists to come in and
talk. It was that type of program. And we had rap
sessions among the people who were indulged in
using dope, marijuana especially. And
all the units, we sent it down to all the units.
Well, the main thing I think they recognized, we
began to tell them about the dope problem, you
know, and alcohol. We had classes, we had
lectures. And I would visit with them, you know,
and the emphasis came down from the top, strong.
And believe it or not, we did not have a problem. We
didn't have any kind of problem in the reserve
program.
Except in Albuquerque. After I left, Plunkett
became the commander. General Myers put him in
there. Then they had a load. that had a little dope
problem about a year later. And then we had the plan
and we cleared all that up. The alcohol, it wasn't
prevalent. There wasn't no problem in the
reserve.
Prior to that, these are secrets, shall I tell you
secrets? Yeah. We know how to get rid of them on the
tape when you read it.
I don't know. Let me tell you something. Well,
General Myers. You don't have to tell me anything
about the personnel, but tell me about the Army.
Well, General Myers told me, he said, General
Travis stepped aside two years from retirement to
let him take over, and when it came time for me to be
promoted, he would step aside. But he never did.
Which I didn't ask for it. I didn't care if he would
step aside or not, you know. didn't make me any
difference. But Myers disappointed me as one of
the, he's one of the generals that really
disappointed me in his performance. Well, how'd
you get out of there? Okay, I stayed there. As the
deputy, and how did you go to the commander of the
75th? Okay, after about four years in the 9th
ARCOM,
General The Deputy Army Commander, General
Rutan, we became friends. Because I used to come, I
used to go to Fort Sam and go down to the track and gym
and work out before I went to the meetings. And he
found out I was a handball player and wanted to play
handball, so we played handball and then
racquetball. Actually, we became friends. There
was an opening that came up in the 75th Mac. General
Davis was retiring. And he wanted to know if I
wanted to move down there. And I said, yes, I would.
So I moved into the 75th MAC. And when I did, they
reorganized the MAC and split it up into three
units, command headquarters, and then combat
support, no, combat service support, and combat
arms. I took over as commander of the combat arms
division. and I went in and reorganized the
structure and was commander two years and I
retired there at 75th and Mack.
Was that, would you consider that as far as your
reserve career the highlight of your career? Or
what would you consider the highlight of your
career as far as a reserve officer?
I would, yeah, I think that was a highlight of my
career because I went to the 75th MAC as a general
officer. It's the first time that any outsider of
the 75th MAC became a general officer. There's
always, in the 75th MAC, they were inbred.
And I went over there with resistance from the
commander and the other general officer. Was the
commander a two-star? Yes. Of
course, they wanted to promote their own. I can
understand that. But that was one of the reasons
why General Rutan asked me to go down there is
because there was too much inbreeding going on and
the unit was low. It was bad, bad shape. And they
wanted to reorganize it. And he wanted me to to
being part of it. And of course, I was about ready
then, because I was tired of going back and forth
saying I'm used to it. And I couldn't see if it was
once a month would be OK. So I went down there. And
for about three or four months, it wasn't an easy
job, Terry, even as a general officer. What were
the problems? A lot of resistance? Well, a lot of
resistance and a lot of cliques and here I come from
the outside. Even though everybody knew me. I'm
sure you'd been there before. I'd been there
before and my record, I mean, you know, throughout
Fifth Army area everybody knew what I had done in
Albuquerque and what I'd done at Fort Sam Houston.
So everybody knew me but I reorganized the combat
arms division of the 75th MAC, and the active army
advisor, Colonel Spencer, was just, he couldn't
believe the
accomplishment of what I was doing in comparison
to the combat service support side. So he could
compare, and we were head and shoulders above it.
And
my deputy,
Harry Conrad, is now a Brigadier General in the
MAC. And I recommended him to the job. Over six
colonels who outranked him and who'd been there
longer than he has. And Army bought my
recommendation. So he'll be, I guess he'll be the
eventual commander in another year over there.
But that was a good duty. I went to the field a lot, to
Fort Lewis, Washington, Camp DeBispo in
California, Wisconsin, Fort
McCoy. Traveled all over the United States
putting on these maneuvers and exercises.
was got the Legion of Merit for doing it. Really?
Yeah. Did you expect that? No, I didn't expect it.
The Army gave it to me. They gave it to me when I
retired two years and said because of my work
in the Maneuver Area Command.
Oh yeah, I look back over at the Ninth ARCOM? I was
sort of an advisor to all the people in the reserve.
They all come to me with their problems and
everything, the colonels and lieutenant
colonels. And one of them in particular was chief
of staff named Bob Lane. He was a full colonel. And
he came to me and he says, General Kokonos, I'm
going to transfer out and go to a direct support
group that was meeting in New Brunswick. I said,
what are you going to do over there? He said, I'm
going to be the deputy, and they told me I could take
over the command later on. I said, well, Bob, let me
tell you what you do. You stay right here. Don't you
move out. Why? He said, well, you may become one of
the generals in this, because I'm going to retire,
and so is General Miles. Oh, no, no, I need to go over
and get command experience. Well, he was right. He
hadn't had any command experience. But anyway, he
said, okay, I'll listen to you. I'll stay. So he
stayed. He's now a two-star general commanding
the 9th Air Command.
Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. And I feel like that I was
part of him getting that job. Oh, yeah. If he'd have
moved out, he would have never been made general.
There was no way he could get general. Because you
have to be in the command channel or in a command
channel. leading to the chop i did it the hard way i
did it the hard way in what sense in sense that i well
uh i was never in a unit that had general officers
where i could work myself up except in the ninth
division and that was disbanding then after that i
was strange stranger to all these units like the
75th maneuver command direct support group that
was a brigadier general slot over in New Orleans.
But
going to the Army War College, I went to the Army War
College. I want to go to those service schools.
Let's talk about those. 1970, graduated in the
first non-resident U.S. Army War College. What
does it mean, non-resident? Non-resident is
correspondent course. Oh, okay. For two years.
It's a two-year course. Correspondent course.
And in the summertime, we'd go to a two-week school
at Carlisle Barracks at the War College. We did the
first summer and we did the second summer. We
graduated. We were the first non-resident course
that they put on. Up to that time, as a reservist or
National Guardsman, you had two slots open in the
regular course. And if you wanted to go to the work
college you had to apply for those two slots and if
you out of a hundred people who applied you had no
chance. So they tried this and sixty percent of us
were reservists and forty percent were active
army people, regular army people in this car spot,
yeah. So this just wasn't for the reservists? No,
it wasn't for the reservists. And it equaled to the
If you got a degree in a non-resident course, it was
the same as getting a degree, a diploma, in the
regular resident course. So the merit was the same
for promotion to general. And that was Paramount
and their active army to be general, to go to the War
College. They had to go to the War College. They had
to go to the War College. And the reserve, they
wanted to make it Paramount, too. That's why they
set it up. But there's a lot of politics in the
reserve. A lot of guys didn't go to the War College,
got more general. But after we completed that two
year course, they realized that we had a double
dose of it. We took twice as much
classes as the regular Army course did. So they cut
it down. They cut down the lessons. My thesis was,
we had to write a thesis. Really? Yeah, god dang. My
thesis was on the storage of oil in the middle of the
ocean. You know how you got these oil fields, these
wells out there now? I'd contend and instead of
trying to build pipelines all the way in, get
rubber bags and fill them full of oil and then a ship
would come up, press a button and a snorkel would
come up and hook up and take the oil out and then
carry it in. Or if the battleships, the Navy needed
oil, they'd press a button, the snorkel would come
up. I'll give it to you in a simple term, but I went
out here to Bethlehem Steel, who builds these
rigs, and I got all kinds of oil books and sat down
and researched it and got a pretty good paper.
Pretty neat. They said, Terry, that the course we
took was
master's degree level. Great. It was that way. You
ask Catherine, on Saturday nights, instead of
going out, I was at the dining room table doing my
lessons for the War College. Oh, yeah. I spent many
hours doing it, and it was tough. Tough. Now,
you've got to remember, I was 1970. You hadn't been
to school for a while. Oh, yeah. I was 50 years old.
But I enjoyed it. It was good. It was challenging,
you know. Catherine would come in and we'd discuss
the communist parties in different countries,
you know, and that's what most of it was about. And
when we got to college, the War College, we
actually drew up the budget for the Army,
Department of the Army. The actual budget. How
many tanks we needed, how many guns we needed, how
many trucks we needed. Of course, we had a format to
follow. And it was very good. But I was glad to see
that they gave it. Hollingsworth, there's what
they call a Hollingsworth Report. I keep bringing
his name up because he was a very prominent
officer. They had a Hollingsworth Report. He
headed up a team, a blue chip team, back in 1965 that
outlined the steps for a reserve officer to become
general. And that was Command, Command General
Staff College, and the Army War College. And I took
every one of those steps. And I think that had a lot
to do with it. How about the General Staff College?
Command General Staff at Fort Laverne? Very fine
school. Tell me about that. It dealt with tactics.
You were there in 1961, yeah? Yeah, it dealt with
tactics. I went there, and I was at the resident, of
course. And I look back now, and I don't know how
Catherine let me go. How long was it? From January
to May. No kidding. Yeah. She came up a couple of
times and stayed with me. But we had four kids,
yeah, four kids. I'll tell you right here, I don't
care what they say, a
career reservist, and I was a career reservist, I
could never accomplish being a general officer
unless I had a dedicated wife who really
sacrificed
her time for me to be gone like I was. Yeah, five
months? Oh, yeah. Not only that, but on weekends.
And at nights, and I don't see, yeah, she's still
with me.
I couldn't have ever done it, and Catherine has
been a big asset to me. Not only in that, but
socials, we go to socials, you know, receptions
and stuff, see-saw. She's an extrovert. Just
people love her. And so I never could accomplish
what I did without her. No question about it. Well,
just the dedication of you going out and leaving
your job, your profession, for five months to take
this. What was going on back at the store? Yeah,
well, of course, I called about every other day and
checked and made decisions from there. And
came home. one time during Easter and did a lot of
work. But it was pretty well taken care of. But
Command General Staff College taught you tactics
on how to maneuver.
It was just fine school, college.
I won the school handball championship while I was
there. That's a story. I went down there. First
Sunday I got there, I went and took my gloves. And I
was tired from traveling and everything. I went
down to the handball courts to play. And two guys
were playing. And I asked them to play cut-throat
with me. They said, oh, no, we want to play singles.
So I said, OK. I introduced myself then. One was
named Adler. And I think the other guy was named
Hanson. But Adler, then as I walked out the door,
there was a sign-up scheduled for a tournament, a
school tournament. So I signed up. Adler and I met
in the finals, Major Adler. And I just beat the hell
out of him. And he says, why did you beat me so bad?
Because you wouldn't let me play cut throw with
you, wouldn't I? Oh, you were the little fellow
that come down and won the play. I said, that was me.
From then on, we were good friends. But I just, oh,
gosh. I really put it on him. I really had an
incentive to win, because he wouldn't let me play
with him. When you retired, what were your
feelings? Are you ready to retire? Or just tell me
how you felt when you retired. I felt like I could do
more. I felt
like I was at my peak. Why did you retire? I had to. So
you serve five years as Brigadier General, and
then you have to retire, unless you get promoted.
And I was recommended by the 5th Army Commander for
a two-star slot. But before the board could meet to
select the officer to occupy, my retirement age
came up. My retirement time, I was 57 years old, 58.
And so that knocked me out. But I still today feel
like I could I could get out in the field and
maneuver with any of them. My mind's just as sharp,
probably better the older. But I felt like I could
still continue. Did you have any resentment then?
No, I didn't feel resentful at all. I was
disappointed that the board didn't meet quick
enough to make a selection. They met about a month
later and they made the selection. And it was a job
in the Pentagon, mobilization assignment,
two-star slot. And I had everybody supporting me.
The active army, everybody was... So you would
have to go out to the Pentagon once a month, pretty
much? Well, not once a month, about three or four
times a year. On the mobilization assignment, you
meet about twice a year. And in one, two weeks...
tour, you're not exactly. And I felt that that
would have been just right for me, because with all
the experience I had in the field and schooling, I
believe I could have been of some good use to them in
the plans and operation of the Department of the
Army. That's where it was. Well, it would have been
very interesting, since you never served in the
Pentagon. That's right. I would have loved to have
served in the Pentagon. But I didn't feel any
resentment. When I left,
they gave me all the courtesies on the 75th night.
Gave me a beautiful retirement party, retirement
ceremony. And everybody, you know, I felt like
they really were sincere and I've done a good job
for them. And they invited me back to come back and
visit with them. And I've been back a couple of
times, but I hadn't been back lately. Just hadn't
had time. Well, when you think over advancement in
the military and just your advancement during
your career in the military, did you think that you
were advanced because of your own personal
behavior, or did you think it had something to do
with the bureaucracy out there? For my
advancement? My personal behavior. I don't think
bureaucracy had a damn thing to do with it. I can't
recall where I was in a position where he said,
well, he's in that position, he ought to be
promoted. No. No. As far as promotions are
concerned, do you think that there's a difference
between promotion in the military life and any
other profession? I mean, do you think it's the
same characteristics that get a promotion that
receive that type of reward in the military versus
in the business world? As an executive
incorporation, I think they're the same. I think
it's a self-discipline to do a job and do it right
and do it good. And I think as a commander and as,
say, president of an organization, I think it's
the
leadership that will make a person do the best that
he can at the job that he's given to do. To do the best
he can at the assignment they give him. I think
that's leadership. I think it's an
incorporation. I feel like I could run any
multiple corporation type job. I wouldn't
hesitate. going over and maybe you know like Exxon
or Gulf or you know I feel like I could step right in
there because I would I've learned to try to
inspire a person to do the best he can to his ability
see that's another aspect of leadership now that
we're on leadership you define as doing the best
job at the best time and also inspiring others to do
their best. And that's a good leader. That's what
you say is a good leader. I would say that's a good
leader. That's the key? I think the key is to get a
man, to get a person to do the best he can, to the best
of his ability, to do the job that he's assigned to
do.
Do the best he can. Get the most out of it. And a job
that that he's assigned to do for you. Okay, and
you've also said tonight that a leader has to be
flexible. Right. In general. And I was wondering,
how about values? Are values important as far as
leadership is concerned?
Oh yeah, you've got to have values to live by and to
guide by and to lead by. Such as? Honesty.
Confidence.